# CS-300-Computational-Graphics-and-Visualization
# How I approach designing software
### What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft?
The new design skills my work on this project has helped me to craft are thinking creatively, have better visualization, utilize technology design, drafting, and utilizing engineering and technology. Thinking creatively allows for me to develop, design, and create new applications and ideas. Visualization allows for me to imagine how something will look after it is moved arround or when its parts are rearranged. Technology design involves generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs. Drafting provides me with documentation, detailed instructions, drawings, and/or specifications on how the application is to be assembled, modified, maintained, and used. Utilzing engineering and technology means that I can apply principles and techniques to the design and production of various applications and projects.
### What design process did you follow for your project work?
The design process that I followed for my project was pretty straight forward. I felt as though breaking everything down into its simplest components was the most efficient way for me to understand what I needed to do next and plan. I initially took a picture of my 3D scene. Once this was done, I began to think of what primitive shapes made up each object. I then drew those primitive shapes and tried to recreate my image. Once I had a good understanding of this, I created one object at a time. These 3D objects were set on a 2D plane. From here I was able to texture my objects, add lighting, and enable camera movement.
### How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?
I think the best takeaway from my design process is proper planning. I essentially created an outline and blueprint for myself. Through simplicity and consistency, I was able to efficiently produce my 3D scene. Having a set plan and following the process will help reduce any roadblocks and increase proficiency.
# How I approach developing programs
### What new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene?
This was my first time working with OpenGL so a lot of new development strategies were put into place while working on my 3D scene. I learned to make use of different libraries and all of the features that they have to offer. I used vertices and indices to create 3D objects. I then used these vertices and indices to create multiple vaos in a vbo. This allowed for me to successfully create multiple 3D objects for my scene.
### How did iteration factor into your development?
Iteration factored into the development of my 3D scene. Throughout this course, we built the scene piece by piece. There was a point where I had one 3D object on a plane. The 3D object was textured, had lighting, and camera movement was enabled. From here I was able to use iteration to repeat the process for creating my 3D object, to create multiple 3D objects to add on my plane. This allowed me to successfully complete my 3D scene.
### How has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion?
My approach to developing code has definitely evolved throughout the milestones. Throughout the milestones, I not only tried to complete the task at hand, but understand what the process was as a whole. All of the milestone tasks came natural to me but I struggled with creating multiple 3D objects at first. After some time and utilizing my resources, I was able to successfully create multiple 3D objects. I learned that the best way to develop code is to start simple and keep adding to it. This allowed me to realize exactly what I needed to do in order to complete my project. I also got in the habit of checking my code after I implemented new code to make sure I didn’t break my code or introduce any bugs.
# How computer science can help me in reaching my goals
### How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational pathway?
This course of computational graphics and visualizations gave me new knowledge and skills that can be applied in my future educational pathway. This class taught me how to use OpenGL and how to create a 3D scene. I learned about three-dimensional objects, how to add texture to objects, scaling objects, and adding proper lighting to my scene. I also learned how to create controllable camera movement based on user input. I think the main skills this course provided my with was being able to deconstruct something into its simplest form and create a plan and execute it to achieve my goals. 
### How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future professional pathway?
As a computer science student, I can utilize the knowledge and skills that I previously mentioned I had attained from this course, in my future profession pathway. Even if I don’t pursue a computational graphics and visualizations career, I can utilize the skills I gained to any career path I take. The most important thing that I learned from this class was deconstructing a problem and planning to fix it. I can apply that to virtually any career path that I take. Also, if i work in a profession where I don’t necessarily work with 3D graphics directly, I can have an understanding incase it is needed in the future.

